---
layout: page
title: "DHS incorrectly associates 84,000 web sites with child pornography"
category: 
  - Homeland Security
teaser: |
    On February 15th a joint project of the Department of Homeland Security
    Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Department of
    Justice termed "Operation Protect Our Children" confidently announced
    the seizure of ten domain names involved in the advertisement and
    distribution of child pornography. 
    
header: 
  image_fullwidth: "header-concret-camara.jpg"
published: true
---

On February 15th a joint project of the Department of Homeland Security
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Department of
Justice termed "Operation Protect Our Children" confidently announced
the seizure of ten domain names involved in the advertisement and
distribution of child pornography. What they failed to mention was that
they also knocked out a popular shared domain by mistake, resulting in,
according to TorrentFreak, some 84,000 web sites being taken down and
redirected to a banner mentioning child pornography.

Free DNS is a service that provides free DNS hosting, subdomain, and
domain hosting among other services. The most popular subdomain offered
by the service, mooo.com, was accidentally caught up in the ICE sweep of
domains taken down.

![moocom](/images/moocom.jpg){: .center-image }

That left legitimate sites such as http://greyghost.mooo.com redirecting
to an ICE web page with this banner, telling visitors "Advertisement,
distribution, transportation, receipt, and possession of child
pornography constitute federal crimes that carry penalties for first
time offenders of up to 30 years in federal prison, a $250,000 fine,
forfeiture and restitution":

![ice_banner](/images/ice_banner.jpg){: .center-image }

ICE is able to force this by first getting a District Court judge to
sign off on a seizure warrant, and then having the domain registrars
re-point the domains to their server hosting the warning banner. At
7:07 on the 12th, the following message was posted by Free DNS after
realizing what happened:

![afraiddnsmessage](/images/afraiddnsmessage.jpg){: .center-image }


## Operation In Our Sites

ICE launched their initial endeavor in domain seizures last year under
"Operation In Our Sites", aimed at seizing the domain names of those who
infringe on copyrights. Legitimate criticisms of these seizure tactics
included targeting web sites that claimed (with paperwork) they were not
actually infringing on copyrights and investigations conducted by agents
without adequate training or experience. For example, ARS Technica noted
one definition from an affidavit provided by an ICE agent that read as
follows: "A Bit torrent (referred to in short as 'torrent' or 'torrent
file') is a files distribution system used for transferring files across
a network of people." The lack of technical understanding present in an
investigator who is then providing direct input into which domains will
be taken down is of concern.

## Finally

Site owners in this most recent case were presented with the unenviable
task of explaining to visitors that they had no affiliation with child
pornography. Since these are personal web sites, blogs, and small
businesses, this is material to some of the site owners.

This screw up in a well intentioned, but overreaching and ham fisted,
government legal action on the Internet comes at a time when legislation
requesting further capabilities, such as an "Internet Kill Switch", is
being discussed. Such screw ups, and glossing over them in reporting on
the project, do not serve to strengthen ICE's ability to be successful
in future enforcement actions on what is the very serious problem of
dissemination of child pornographic material on the Internet.
